you
this lecture is about some practical
issues that you would have to address in
evaluating of tax retrieval systems in
this lecture we will continue the
discussion of evaluation will cover some
practical issues that you have to solve
in actual evaluation of tax retrieval
systems so in order to create the
testicle action we have to create a set
of queries a set of documents and a set
of relevant judgments it turns out that
each is actually challenging to create
first the documents and queries must be
representative they must represent the
real queries and real documents that the
users handle and we also have to use
many queries and many documents in order
to avoid a biased conclusions for the
matching of relevant documents with the
queries we also need to ensure that
there exists a lot of relevant documents
for each query if a query has only one
that stay relevant document in the
collection then you know it's not very
informative to compare different methods
using such a query because there's not
that much room for us to see difference
so ideally there should be more relevant
documents in the collection but yet the
queries also should represent the real
queries that we care about in terms of
relevance judgments the chana means to
ensure complete the judgments of all the
documents for all the queries
yet minimizing human effort because we
have to use the human labor to label
these documents it's very labor
intensive and as a result it's
impossible to actually label all the
documents for all the queries especially
considering the giant data set like the
web so this is actually a major Canon
it's a very difficult challenge for
measures it's also challenging because
we want to measures that would
accurately reflect the perceived the
utility of users we have to consider
carefully what the users care about and
then design measures to measure that if
what your measure is
- you're in the right thing then your
conclusion would be mislead so it's very
important so we're going to talk about a
couple of issues here one is the
statistical significance test and this
also is the reason why we have to use a
lot of queries and the question here is
how sure can you be that and observe the
difference doesn't simply result from
the particular queries you choose so
here are some sample results of average
position for system a and system B in
two different experiments and you can
see in the bottom we have mean average
precision so the mean if you look at the
meaning average of precision the main
average positions are exactly the same
in both experiments right so you can see
this is 0.2 this is 0.04 for system B
and again here it's also point two and
point four so they are identical yet if
you look at these exact average
positions for different queries if you
look at these numbers in detail you will
realize that in one case you would feel
that you can trust the conclusion here
given by the average in another case in
the other case you will feel that well
I'm not sure so why don't you take a
look at all these numbers for a moment
pause the video so if you look at the
average the mean average position we can
easily say that well system B is better
right so it's after all it's 0.4 and
then this is twice as much as 0.02 so
that's a better performance but if you
look at these two experiments I look at
the detailed results you will see that
we'll be more confident that to say that
in the case one in experiment than one
in this case because these numbers seem
to be consistently better for system B
whereas in experiment the two we're not
sure because looking at some results
like this
after the system a is better and this is
an allocated system a is better but yet
if we look at only average system B is
better so what do you think you know how
reliable is our conclusion if we only
look at the average now in this case
intuitively we feel experiment one is
more reliable but how can we
quantitatively answer this question and
this is why we need to do statistical
significance test so the idea of
statistical significance test is
basically to assess the very variance
across these different queries if there
is a big variance that means the the
results could fluctuate a lot according
to different queries then we should
believe that unless you have used a lot
of queries and the results might change
if we use another set of queries right
so this is then not so if you have seen
high variance then it's not very
reliable so let's look at these results
again in the second case right so here
we shoot two different ways to compare
them one is a scientist where we just
look at the design
if system B is better than sis from a we
have a plus sign when system a is better
we have a minus sign etc so in this case
if you see this well there are seven
cases we actually have four cases where
system B is better but three cases
system a is better
intuitively this is almost like a random
result right so if you just take a
random sample dude used to flip seven
coins and if you use plus to denote the
head and then minus routine under the
tail and that could easily be the
results of just randomly flipping these
seven coins so the fact that the average
II is larger doesn't tell us anything
and we can reliable to conclude that and
this can be quantitatively measured by
a p-value and that basically means the
probability that this result is in fact
from random fluctuation in this case
probability is 1 it means it surely is a
random fluctuation now in wilcoxon test
is a nonparametric test and we would be
not only looking at the signs will be
also looking at the magnitude of the
difference but we wouldn't draw a
similar conclusion where you say well
it's very likely to be from random so to
illustrate this let's think about that
such a distribution and this is called a
now distribution we assume that the mean
is zero here let's say we start with
something that there's no difference
between the two systems but we assume
that the because of random fluctuations
depending on the queries we might
observe a difference so the actual
difference might be on the left side
here or on the right side here right so
and this curve kind of shows the
probability that we will actually
observe values that are deviating from
zero here now so if we look at this
picture then we see that if a difference
is observed here then the chance is very
high that this is in fact a random
observation right we can define a
reading of you know likely observation
because of random fluctuation and this
is 95% of all the outcomes and in this
interval then the observed values may
still be from random fluctuation but if
you observe a value in this reading or a
difference on this side then the
difference is unlikely from random
fluctuation right so there's a very
small probability that you will observe
such a difference just because of random
fluctuation so in that case we can then
conclude the difference must be real so
system B is indeed a banner so this is
the idea of statistical significance
the takeaway message you hear is that
you haven't used many queries to avoid
jumping into a conclusion as in this
case to say system B is better there are
many different ways of doing this a
statistical single engine test so now
let's talk about the other problem of
making judgments and as we said earlier
it's very hard to judge all the
documents completely unless it's a very
small data set so the question is if we
can afford judging all the documents in
the collection which is subset or should
we charge and the solution here is
pooling and this is a strategy that has
been used in many cases to solve this
problem so the idea of pooling is the
following we would first choose a
diverse set of ranking methods these are
tax retrieval systems and we hope these
methods can help us nominate likely
relevant documents so the goal is to
pick out the relevant documents we want
to make judgments on relevant rockins
because those are the most useful
documents from users perspective so then
we're going to have each to return top
key documents and the K can vary from
systems right but the point is to ask
them to suggest the most likely rather
than the documents and then we simply
combine all these top K sets to form a
pool of documents for human Assessors to
judge so imagine you have many systems
each will return K documents you know
take the top K documents and we form the
Union now of course there are many
documents that are duplicated because
many systems might have retrieved the
same rather than the document so there
will be some duplicate documents and
there were they're also unique adoptions
that only returned by one system and so
the idea of having diverse set of with
the ranking methods is to ensure the
poor is broad and can include as many
possible development documents as
possible
and then the users would human success
would make complete the judgments on
this data set this poor and their other
adjudged the documents are usually just
assumed to be non relevant now if the
poor is large enough this assumption is
okay but if the poor is not very large
this actually has to be reconsidered and
we might use other strategies to deal
with them and there are indeed other
methods to handle such cases and such a
strategy is generally okay for comparing
systems that contribute to the poor that
means if you participate in contributing
to the poor then it's unlikely that that
it will penalize your system because the
top or angle documents have all been
charged however this is a problem Erika
for evaluating a new system that may
have not contributed to the poor now in
this case you know a new system might be
penalized because it might have
nominated some random the documents that
have not been judged so those documents
might be assumed to be non relevant that
that's unfair so to summarize the whole
part of texture retrieval evaluation
it's extremely important because the
problem is the empirical define the
problem if we don't rely on users there
is no way to tell whether one method
works better if we have in the profit
that experiment design we might miss
guide our research or applications and
we might just draw wrong conclusions and
we have seen this in some of our
discussion so make sure to get it right
for your research or application the
main methodology is cream-filled
evaluation methodology and this is there
the main paradigm used in all kinds of
empirical evaluation tasks not just for
so changing values map and NDC G are the
two main measures that should definitely
and know about and they are appropriate
for comparing ranking algorithms you
will see them often in research papers
proceeding at ten documents is
interpreter from the users perspective
so that's also often useful what's not
covered is some other evaluation
strategy like a bee test where the
system would mix to the results of two
methods randomly and then we'll show the
mixer results to users of course the
users don't see and which resulted is
from which method the users would charge
those results or click on those who's
documents in in a search engine
application in this case then the search
engine can keep track of the click the
documents and see if one method has
contributed more to the click the
documents if the user tends to click on
one the results from one method and then
it suggests that the that method may may
be better so this is the leverage to the
real users of a search engine to do
evaluation it's called a bee test and
it's a strategy that's often used by the
modern search engines or commercial
search engines another way to evaluate
IR or tax retrieval is user status and
we haven't covered that I've put some
references here that you can look at if
you want to know more about that so
there are three additional readings here
these are three mini books about
evaluation and they are excellent in
covering a broad review of information
which we were evaluating and has covered
some of the things that we discussed but
they also have a lot of others to offer
you
[Music]